Hello this is Carol from following Spode dot com.
And welcome to this 18th tutorial in our series of tutorials on algorithmic trading for beginners.
And in this article we're going to be talking about the close function the oracles function is very
similar to the order center function but it actually allows us to do the opposite.
It allows us to close orders which already exist in the market and what we're going to do now is we're
going to open to showreel 17.
And because we are going to be building upon this practice code we're going to take it and we'll save
as the save save it as tutorial 18 and we'll just change a number up here and that will save us a lot
of time.
So now we've compiled it.
It is the same working code that we had in total 17 but now we can just continue building upon it.
So if you remember in this code we have some extra parameters that the trader can change that will set
0 take profit and stop loss levels.
Then we send an order we use order send function to send a Eurodollar by order for one last and then
we use ticket to implement the use the variable ticket to implement some a safe failsafe mechanism here
which allows us to account for any possible errors that could occur while the order is being sent.
So that's that part.
So if there were any order then any errors and the order wasn't sent then the trader will get a message
saying error.
Otherwise if everything is OK then this code will be executed which is between these two brackets after
else.
So that's exactly where we want to add our new code because that's what that's where the program will
go if everything's OK and the order was sent successfully.
So the code we want to add is we want to now after that order has been opened and we've told the trade
of what the order number is we want to close the order.
This does make does seem like it doesn't make much sense in real life because why would we close an
order which we've just opened.
But we're doing this only for practice purposes and of course in a proper algorithmic trading system
we wouldn't do this right away.
We would close the order on certain conditions but at this stage this is just a way for us to practice
how to correctly use the corporate close function.
So we've opened the order we've told the trader that we have opened it and now we're going to close
a and to do that we will use the order close function function and there it is will every function starts
of a bracket and we'll just click f one to see the tooltip for this function.
And here we can see right away that the or reclose function accepts some five variables and returns
one output value.
And so let's go ahead and program this.
So order close needs a ticket and we'll go through these for input values one by one and they'll all
make sense.
So order close needs tickets so that's basically telling this function which order it needs to close.
And at this stage we only have one ticket the ticket of the order that's just been opened and that's
exactly what we will supply toward Aquos next order clothes function requires a value of excuse me the
number of lots that have to be closed so this tells you that you don't have to close the entire order
right away you can close half of it or you can close a fraction of the order.
But in this particular instance we're going to close the whole order so it's going to be one lot double
prices the price at which we would need to close.
We want to close the order.
And because this is a buy order and buy orders are opened at the ask price which is a dear price.
They're always close at the cheaper price so we get less money.
They're closed at big price.
So here we will type in bid slippage is the
allowed threshold or basically acceptable deviation in Pip's from this price and we're just going to
sell 10 Pipps and we're not going to bother about heroic color because just the color of the arrow.
And it does have a default value so we'll just finish with it isn't there.
And as you can see all reclose is much smaller than order send.
And that basically reflects that it doesn't have to take profits and stop losses and doesn't take calm.
It still has full parameters which quite a lot.
But it just does look a bit smaller.
And so that's that will compile that as you can see we're getting a warning again saying that
order clothes the return value of articles should be checked.
So let's go ahead and look at that because that's prompting us to create a failsafe mechanism just like
we did four orders sent over here.
So we're going to do a very similar thing now.
So we'll go into a reclosed back in there and we'll see that reclose has a returns and Puli unbearable.
And if we look at the descriptions as returns true if successful otherwise false we don't need this
other part.
So much simpler than order send.
There's no tickets involved because it is actually getting closed.
So what we need to do is we need to create a boolean local address for result and here will type in
rez equals order clause meaning that the return value will now be stored in the rest variable.
And here we will implement failsafe mechanism if Raz is equal to Folse then something went wrong and
we need to tell that trader that there has been an error.
This is very important because if the trader doesn't look at this then the order will stay open and
can cause substantial damage to the funds that can't otherwise else.
Everything has been done successfully and the order has been closed.
So we need to tell the trader we just gave him a friendly message say order close access for we we don't
need an exclamation mark because that's how we expect things to progress so we don't need to attract
attention to that.
So we'll compile that as you can see no more errors or warnings.
That is because we are accounting for the result of the return value of order clause and we have put
in place a failsafe mechanism.
And now if we go to the terminal and in scripts we look for Tauriel 18 and we drag that onto the chart.
We will then change the inputs you'll see it come up.
Now and right away it was closed.
So your ticket is that number and then a closing order and order close successfully.
So if we go to account history here we can see the only order that ever existed is that order which
we opened and we closed right away so we can do that again just to see how it works we'll maybe change
this to 40 and 30 take profit 40 plus 30.
See what happens then.
Orders opened or it is closed.
Is that one more time.
One hundred and fifty.
I was making 80
or is open orders closed.
And there you go.
That's that's how it works.
Just go back to the code quickly and you can see that the code is starting to grow that it's getting
some flesh to itself and it's it's growing quite quickly and that you'll see that that's what naturally
happens when you build and build upon program.
But the best part about it is that we've literally gone through every line of this code and we know
exactly what's happening.
So that's some very good groundwork that we've done and that will help us in our future tracking systems.
And I'll see at the next tutorial.
Until then coding.